---
title: "Tutorial 0 – Introduction"
date: 2020-05-09T16:16:15+02:00
draft: true
tags: ["zero","introduction"]
categories: ["basics"]
authors: ["Giacomo Sabatini"]
---

Welcome to this basic tutorial series about PraxisLIVE.
In this first episode, you'll be introduced to the software and what are its possibles usages.

PraxisLIVE is an open source software for artists to create advanced multimedia content (for example video mappings, audio-syncronized visuals created with code, or GUIs to manage MIDI sounds).
Here's a list of its key features:
- intuitive graphical patching, so it works with nodes written in Processing, a Java-based scripting language;
- You can modify the project and nodes values while running it;
- Real-time audio/video (it uses infact OpenGL, GStreamer, JACK);
- It can manage MIDI, OSC, GUIs and physical computing, which are computers that are able to translate real world signals, like sounds or movements, as an input;
- It's cross-platform (Windows, MacOS, Linux and even Raspberry Pi!).

Let's focus for a moment on Processing. It's a standalone language with its own IDE, already widely used by artists to create procedural art, both static and dynamic, based on variables and algorythms. As Java, it focuses on objects, which are script elements that can communicate and share informations to each other. This allows you to create tiny programs or games based on interaction and variable situation generated by the code, like PraxisLIVE. But why using it and not just Processing? As already said, Praxis uses graphical patches that allow also to blend multiple Processing sketches together, creating peculiar interactions between them; of course, to customize or create custom nodes you'll have to program like you would do with Processing IDE. PraxisLIVE also features its custom libraries to manage various multimedia formats, including webcam input. It's even possible to manage the project on a PC and run into another one.

Here are some examples of what you can achieve with this software:

{{<youtube_custom id="lK94qu1iObo">}}

{{<youtube_custom id="TFAFaS4_r8A">}}

{{<youtube_custom id="5R_ZJdYLpow">}}

Extraordinary, isn't it? Sure, it has great potential, even compared to colossus like TouchDesigner et similia. But the issue is that on the web it lacks of tutorials or breakdowned examples to allow newcomers that are not familiar with advanced multimedia creation to easily jump in and to understand how does it work and why.

Our purpose, in this basic course, is to explore the basics of both PraxisLIVE and Processing, that will immediately allow to start creating your art.


For this episode, that's all. In the next one, we're going to create our first project and play a little with the video nodes to see how they work.

See you at the next episode!
